README.md, before:

# ChasquiFX

## About

ChasquiFX is a tool that integrates flight route data with foreign exchange data to provide destination recommendations based on favorable exchange rates and available flight routes.

## Features

- Find destinations with favorable exchange rates
- View flight routes and fare information
- Compare destinations with interactive visualizations
- Save favorite destinations
- Export results to CSV

## Quick Start

### Using the launcher scripts

ChasquiFX comes with several convenience scripts to help you manage the application:

#### Start the application

To start both the API server and the Streamlit frontend with a single command:

```bash
./run_ChasquiFX.sh
```

This will:

1. Launch the FastAPI backend server on port 8000
2. Launch the Streamlit frontend on port 8501
3. Monitor both services and log their output to `logs/` directory

You can access:

- Web application: <http://localhost:8501>
- API documentation: <http://localhost:8000/docs>

#### Stop the application

To stop the application, you can either:

1. Press `CTRL+C` in the terminal where `run_ChasquiFX.sh` is running
2. Or run the stop script:

   ```bash
   ./stop_ChasquiFX.sh
   ```

#### Check status

To check if the services are running:

```bash
./status_ChasquiFX.sh
```

This will display the status of both the API server and Streamlit app.

#### Desktop Launcher

For convenience, you can also use the included desktop entry file to launch the application from your desktop environment:

```bash
# Copy the desktop file to your applications directory
cp ChasquiFX.desktop ~/.local/share/applications/
```

## Manual Usage

If you prefer to run the components separately:

### Start the API server

```bash
python backend/api/main.py
```

### Start the Streamlit frontend

```bash
streamlit run frontend/ChasquiFX.py
```

## Architecture

- **Backend**: FastAPI application providing the core functionality and data processing
- **Frontend**: Streamlit application providing an interactive user interface
- **Data**: Currency exchange rates and flight route information

## Development

### Project Structure

- `/backend/api/`: API implementation
- `/backend/assets/data/`: Data files including forex and geographic data
- `/frontend/`: Streamlit frontend
- `/test/`: Unit tests

### Requirements

- Python 3.8+
- Dependencies listed in requirements.txt

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

#### Application won't start

1. **Check the logs**: Look at the log files in the `logs/` directory for error messages:

   ```bash
   tail -n 50 logs/api_server.log
   tail -n 50 logs/streamlit_app.log
   ```

2. **Port conflicts**: If another application is using port 8000 or 8501:

   ```bash
   # Check if ports are in use
   lsof -i :8000
   lsof -i :8501
   
   # Modify the ports in the scripts if needed
   ```

3. **Python environment issues**: If you're getting import errors:

   ```bash
   # Run the setup script to create a fresh environment
   ./setup.sh
   ```

#### Data not updating

1. **Clear the cache**: Use the "Refresh Data" button in the app interface

2. **Check API status**: Use the status indicator in the app or run:

   ```bash
   ./status_ChasquiFX.sh
   ```

3. **Manual cache clear**: Remove the Streamlit cache:

   ```bash
   rm -rf ~/.streamlit/cache
   ```

#### Visualization issues

1. **Browser compatibility**: Try a different browser (Chrome or Firefox recommended)

2. **Clear browser cache**: Press Ctrl+F5 to force refresh the page

3. **Check console**: Open your browser's developer tools to check for JavaScript errors

### Support

If you continue to experience issues:

1. Check the GitHub Issues page for similar problems
2. Create a new issue with detailed information about the problem
3. Include log files and your system information

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

Commit message:

feat: Update .gitignore and README for environment variable setup; enhance flight_service to use SerpAPI for fetching flight fares

README.md, after:

# ChasquiFX

## About

ChasquiFX is a tool that integrates flight route data with foreign exchange data to provide destination recommendations based on favorable exchange rates and available flight routes.

## Features

- Find destinations with favorable exchange rates
- View flight routes and fare information (via SerpAPI integration)
- Compare destinations with interactive visualizations
- Save favorite destinations
- Export results to CSV

## API Key Setup

ChasquiFX uses SerpAPI to fetch real flight data. To enable this functionality:

1. Sign up for a SerpAPI account at [https://serpapi.com/](https://serpapi.com/)
2. Get your API key from your SerpAPI dashboard
3. Create or edit the file `backend/.env` with the following content:

   ```bash
   SERPAPI_API_KEY=your_serpapi_key_here
   ```

4. Replace `your_serpapi_key_here` with your actual SerpAPI key

> **Note:** Without a valid API key, the application will fall back to using simulated flight data.

## Quick Start

### Using the launcher scripts

ChasquiFX comes with several convenience scripts to help you manage the application:

#### Start the application

To start both the API server and the Streamlit frontend with a single command:

```bash
./run_ChasquiFX.sh
```

This will:

1. Launch the FastAPI backend server on port 8000
2. Launch the Streamlit frontend on port 8501
3. Monitor both services and log their output to `logs/` directory

You can access:

- Web application: <http://localhost:8501>
- API documentation: <http://localhost:8000/docs>

#### Stop the application

To stop the application, you can either:

1. Press `CTRL+C` in the terminal where `run_ChasquiFX.sh` is running
2. Or run the stop script:

   ```bash
   ./stop_ChasquiFX.sh
   ```

#### Check status

To check if the services are running:

```bash
./status_ChasquiFX.sh
```

This will display the status of both the API server and Streamlit app.

#### Desktop Launcher

For convenience, you can also use the included desktop entry file to launch the application from your desktop environment:

```bash
# Copy the desktop file to your applications directory
cp ChasquiFX.desktop ~/.local/share/applications/
```

## Manual Usage

If you prefer to run the components separately:

### Start the API server

```bash
python backend/api/main.py
```

### Start the Streamlit frontend

```bash
streamlit run frontend/ChasquiFX.py
```

## Architecture

- **Backend**: FastAPI application providing the core functionality and data processing
- **Frontend**: Streamlit application providing an interactive user interface
- **Data**: Currency exchange rates and flight route information

## Development

### Project Structure

- `/backend/api/`: API implementation
- `/backend/assets/data/`: Data files including forex and geographic data
- `/frontend/`: Streamlit frontend
- `/test/`: Unit tests

### Requirements

- Python 3.8+
- Dependencies listed in requirements.txt

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

#### Application won't start

1. **Check the logs**: Look at the log files in the `logs/` directory for error messages:

   ```bash
   tail -n 50 logs/api_server.log
   tail -n 50 logs/streamlit_app.log
   ```

2. **Port conflicts**: If another application is using port 8000 or 8501:

   ```bash
   # Check if ports are in use
   lsof -i :8000
   lsof -i :8501
   
   # Modify the ports in the scripts if needed
   ```

3. **Python environment issues**: If you're getting import errors:

   ```bash
   # Run the setup script to create a fresh environment
   ./setup.sh
   ```

#### Data not updating

1. **Clear the cache**: Use the "Refresh Data" button in the app interface

2. **Check API status**: Use the status indicator in the app or run:

   ```bash
   ./status_ChasquiFX.sh
   ```

3. **Manual cache clear**: Remove the Streamlit cache:

   ```bash
   rm -rf ~/.streamlit/cache
   ```

#### Visualization issues

1. **Browser compatibility**: Try a different browser (Chrome or Firefox recommended)

2. **Clear browser cache**: Press Ctrl+F5 to force refresh the page

3. **Check console**: Open your browser's developer tools to check for JavaScript errors

### Support

If you continue to experience issues:

1. Check the GitHub Issues page for similar problems
2. Create a new issue with detailed information about the problem
3. Include log files and your system information

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.
