backend/api/docs/mongodb-quickstart.md, before:

# ChasquiFX MongoDB Integration

This document provides a quick-start guide for the MongoDB integration in ChasquiFX.

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

Make sure you have:

1. MongoDB 4.4+ installed and running
2. Node.js 14+ installed
3. MongoDB connection URI set in .env file as `MONGODB_URI`

### Migration Steps

1. **Run the full migration process**:

   ```bash
   cd backend/api/scripts
   ./full-migration-process.sh
   ```

2. **Test individual components**:

   ```bash
   ./run-tests.sh
   ```

3. **Monitor cache usage**:
   ```bash
   node generate-cache-dashboard.js --html --output ~/cache-dashboard.html
   ```

## Automated Tasks

The integration provides several automated tasks:

### Cache Management

- **TTL-Based Expiration**: MongoDB automatically removes expired cache entries
- **Standardized Naming**: All cache entries follow the naming conventions from the Python file_renamer.py script

### Data Synchronization

- **File to MongoDB Migration**: Data is migrated from files to MongoDB
- **Dual Storage**: New data is stored in both MongoDB and files for backward compatibility

## Dashboard

The cache dashboard provides:

- Overview of database statistics
- Forex cache statistics
- Flight cache statistics
- API call statistics
- Daily API call volume chart

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Connection Problems**: Check your MongoDB URI in the .env file
2. **Migration Failures**: Use `--dry-run` flag to test before actual migration
3. **Missing Data**: Check storage paths in file standardization service

### Getting Help

For more detailed information, refer to:

- `backend/api/docs/mongodb-migration.md`
- `backend/api/scripts/README.md`

## Performance Considerations

- MongoDB queries are indexed for optimal performance
- Cache entries have TTL indexes for automatic cleanup
- Statistics collection uses aggregation pipelines for efficiency

Commit message:

Refactor MongoDB connection handling and improve error logging
- Updated MongoDB connection script to ensure credentials are loaded from environment variables and added error handling for missing credentials.
- Enhanced logging for connection attempts and results, including detailed error messages for authentication failures.
- Implemented alternative connection testing methods to troubleshoot connection issues with MongoDB Atlas.
- Created comprehensive test scripts for both direct MongoDB client and Mongoose connections, including CRUD operations and connection verification.
- Added documentation for MongoDB connection troubleshooting and migration steps.

backend/api/docs/mongodb-quickstart.md, after:

# ChasquiFX MongoDB Integration

This document provides a quick-start guide for the MongoDB integration in ChasquiFX.

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

Make sure you have:

1. Access to MongoDB Atlas cluster (chasquifx.ymxb5bs.mongodb.net)
2. Node.js 18+ installed
3. MongoDB credentials set in .env file as `MONGODB_USER` and `MONGODB_PASSWORD`

### Connection Details

The application uses MongoDB Atlas with the following connection details:

- **Cluster**: chasquifx.ymxb5bs.mongodb.net
- **Database Name**: chasquifx
- **Authentication**: Username and password
- **Connection Type**: MongoDB+SRV URI

### Testing the Connection

1. **Run the basic connection test**:

   ```bash
   cd backend/api
   node tests/mongoose-connection-test.js
   ```

2. **Test individual components**:

   ```bash
   ./run-tests.sh
   ```

3. **Monitor cache usage**:

   ```bash
   node generate-cache-dashboard.js --html --output ~/cache-dashboard.html
   ```

## Automated Tasks

The integration provides several automated tasks:

### Cache Management

- **TTL-Based Expiration**: MongoDB automatically removes expired cache entries
- **Standardized Naming**: All cache entries follow the naming conventions from the Python file_renamer.py script

### Data Synchronization

- **File to MongoDB Migration**: Data is migrated from files to MongoDB
- **Dual Storage**: New data is stored in both MongoDB and files for backward compatibility

## Dashboard

The cache dashboard provides:

- Overview of database statistics
- Forex cache statistics
- Flight cache statistics
- API call statistics
- Daily API call volume chart

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Connection Problems**: Check your MongoDB URI in the .env file
2. **Migration Failures**: Use `--dry-run` flag to test before actual migration
3. **Missing Data**: Check storage paths in file standardization service

### Getting Help

For more detailed information, refer to:

- `backend/api/docs/mongodb-migration.md`
- `backend/api/scripts/README.md`

## Performance Considerations

- MongoDB queries are indexed for optimal performance
- Cache entries have TTL indexes for automatic cleanup
- Statistics collection uses aggregation pipelines for efficiency
